>> Will Sentance: This is not
a model of jobs of execution.
Every single time we have a task to do,
we must finish it before we move on.
But that's gonna pose a big problem.
Single threaded, one command at a time,
and synchronicity executed.
That means each line must be finished
before you move onto the next line.
But that might create a problem.
What if we have a task
like speaking to a server,
to Twitter's server, to get new tweets.
To like we click here to
view new tweets on Twitter,
it's gonna send a message
to Twitter's server.
And on those messages,
the data coming back from Twitter,
is then going to want to display
that new data, those new tweets.
We've gotta sit on that line, and wait for
that data to come back, and when it comes
back finally, then we can display it, and
then we can move on to the next line.
But that could take like half a second,
it could take longer,
and in that time we can't run
any further code afterwards.
That's a serious problem.
We want to wait for
the tweets to be stored in tweets as
opposed to be sort of, run a function.
Let's have a look.
So,
if you ever run a function like get
tweets, it sends off a message to Twitter.
And when the tweets come back, we're
gonna store them in the label tweets,
then we're gonna display those tweets.
But in the meantime,
can we move on to any further code below?
No, not in JavaScript,
not with our current model of JavaScript.
And imagine what that does,
like suppose I'm doing on a slack
like I'm clicking emoji, and
then clicking emoji responses.
Our favorite.
So clicking emoji responses,
and it's sending a message to
slack saying hey, new emoji light.
It can't move on until it's
got confirmation back,
that that was successfully
updated to the server.
You can't kinda move onto to further
code until you've confirmed its code.
Well, in theory, right?
And then meaning if you're trying to
click the next emoji response, and
you got the seven lined up, and
you need to like every single one,
because it is very, entertaining message,
you click each one.
You wouldn't be able
to click the next one,
until you got confirmation back of
the previous one being clicked.
If you're on Twitter, and
you click view more tweets, it's gonna
send a message say hey, get new tweets.
Bring them back, and until you get
the tweets back, you can't move on and
click any other stuff on the page.
You click a heart to like an emoji,
and like a tweet before it comes back,
you click that heart, and
you're getting no response,
because that's code that needs to run
to turn the heart from clear to pink.
So, what are we gonna do?
Slow function blocks further code
running so, what can we do people?
Let's make it even harder.
What if we wanted to directly delay
a function running, using set timer,
built in function?
Its first input,
is the function you wanna delay running.
And its second input, is the number of
milliseconds by which you wanna delay it.
So, to Ethan, it's lovely to have all
of you back by the way to, and for
our online audience who are watching
this in a video format later,
from earlier today from
this one day world, Ethan,
what are we gonna have happen
here with this set timeout?
So I've got my function print hello.
I've got my set timeout call with
print hello, 1000 milliseconds delay.
Presume I gotta do it inside set timeout,
right, before I then have?
In what order, Ethan, would our
existing model of JavaScript suggest
the console logs would happen.
And then do you think that's
actually what happens?
Take it away Ethan.
>> Ethan: I think you'll wait for
one second, and
then print hello, and
then you'll print me first.
>> Will Sentance: I mean, if you look at
what I've got here, that's kind of explain
how else it could be and yet raise,
no raising hands from here and yet.
Do we think that's actually what happens?
There's no way.
But with our existing model of JavaScript,
Ethan would be spot on.
Let's make it even more extreme.
Brayden here, now we've got
delay at zero milliseconds now.
Now, I assume,
now I assume it will be fine.
Brayden, what's that order of
console logs here, do you think?
>> Brayden: The same as before,
where we'd say hello, and
then it refers to
>> Will Sentance: It wasn't that
before, either.
[LAUGH]
>> Brayden: If you follow the, [LAUGH]
>> Will Sentance: Okay, let's
see what we actually think.
So before, actually, it was, yeah.
Me first, and then hello.
We didn't feel like that'd be right?
But we know in reality is closer
towards me first, and then hello,
but that makes no sense.
So here, what do you think Brayden?
>> Brayden: In hello first,
there's no wait.
>> Will Sentance: That would
be more logical right?
Is he right?
That's why the answer's no.
>> Brayden: [LAUGH]
>> Will Sentance: He's, not,
it's gonna be me first.
And then hello.
What is this language?
This is profound.
For in reality, JavaScript is not enough.
We need new pieces, some of which
aren't actually JavaScript at all,
in order to explain what's happening here,
our core Java engine, we've seen it all.
It has three main parts.
Actually, let's make sure
our call stack is on here.
It has three main parts.
It has our memory, storing stuff,
our thread of execution.
Execution context, that has been based on
just mini versions of those two things.
And it has our call stack on which
global is always at the bottom.
>> Will Sentance: With the model,
that and we have multiplied by two,
when we're running it here.
We take it off throughout the global
we run it here, it's on top.
This is all a JavaScript but,
we're gonna have to add new components,
we're gonna have to add.
Web browser features,
we have to add promises.
The event loop callback task, callback
will task you, and the microtask queue.
And we're gonna add all of these to
our puzzle in order to explain what's
happening here.